[DOC] Add temp_storage_bytes usage guide (#6208)
NVIDIA/cccl: docs/cub/api_docs/device_wide.rst

   ../api/device

Determining Temporary Storage Requirements
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

**Two-Phase API** (Traditional)

Most CUB device-wide algorithms follow a two-phase usage pattern:

1. **Query Phase**: Call the algorithm with ``d_temp_storage = nullptr`` to determine required temporary storage size
2. **Execution Phase**: Allocate storage and call the algorithm again to perform the actual operation

**What arguments are needed during the query phase?**

* **Required**: Data types (via template parameters and iterator types) and problem size (``num_items``)
* **Can be nullptr/uninitialized**: All input/output pointers (``d_in``, ``d_out``, etc.)
* **Note**: The algorithm does not access input data during the query phase

Example pattern:

> .. code-block:: c++

Reviewer: we stopped using `code-block` and rather use `literalinclude`s now linked to standalone .cu source examples.

   // Determine temporary storage requirements
   void* d_temp_storage = nullptr;
   size_t temp_storage_bytes = 0;

   cub::DeviceReduce::Sum(
     d_temp_storage, temp_storage_bytes,
     nullptr, nullptr, num_items);  // Input/output pointers can be null

   // Allocate temporary storage
   cudaMalloc(&d_temp_storage, temp_storage_bytes);

   // Run the actual algorithm with real pointers
   cub::DeviceReduce::Sum(
     d_temp_storage, temp_storage_bytes,
     d_in, d_out, num_items);

**Single-Phase API** (Environment-Based)

Some algorithms provide environment-based overloads that eliminate the two-phase call pattern.

> These APIs accept an execution environment parameter. See the individual algorithm documentation for availability.

Reviewer: `Some algorithms`: we are in the process of adding these APIs for all algorithms. Let's not make it sound like we selectively picked some algorithms to support this feature.

`eliminate the two-phase call pattern`: they eliminate the explicit allocation requirements which relives us from a) two phase call b) the two legacy storage arguments in the beginning of the parameter list of every device premitive.

`These APIs accept an execution environment parameter.`: I feel like there is much more to be said here. There is a blogpost coming out soon that can be used as inspo. Trying to sum it up briefly: 

1.  the execution environment arg is at the end **and is defaulted** which means users do not have to pass something explicitly to it.

2.  the execution environment arg can be used to select on which memory pool the primitive will be executed:

       i) there are existing memory resources provided by CCCL or

       ii) the user can create their own custom memory resource

3. in *some* algorithms the argument can be used to specify the deterministic requirements (*expand on det reqs*) of the algorithm

4. the user can still pass the stream as before in the templated execution environment arg

5. all of the above can be passed simultaneously in a centralized control argument manner (*show how*). 

There are more to be said but are not feature complete so we can avoid them for now.

   ../api/device

.. _device-temp-storage:

Determining Temporary Storage Requirements
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

**Two-Phase API** (Traditional)

Most CUB device-wide algorithms follow a two-phase usage pattern:

1. **Query Phase**: Call the algorithm with ``d_temp_storage = nullptr`` to determine required temporary storage size
2. **Execution Phase**: Allocate storage and call the algorithm again to perform the actual operation

**What arguments are needed during the query phase?**

> * **Template instantiation**: The query call must use the same template arguments as the execution call; only ``d_temp_storage``, ``temp_storage_bytes``, and problem-size parameters (for example ``num_items``) differ.

Reviewer 2: Critical: I believe this is not correct. All template arguments must be the same. `d_temp_storage` and `temp_storage_bytes` have fixed types, so we can remove them here. The type for `num_items` must be the same, since we may use more temporary storage for 64-bit sizes vs. 32-bit sizes.

```suggestion
* **Template instantiation**: The query call must use the same template arguments as the execution call.
```

* **Argument access**: Aside from ``d_temp_storage``, ``temp_storage_bytes``, and the problem-size arguments, no parameters are inspected during the query phase, so their values may be indeterminate. The dispatch layer returns before launching kernels or touching user storage.
* **Current device**: The computed temporary storage size is valid only when the execution call runs on the same current CUDA device as the query. Re-run the query if the current device changes between phases.

Example pattern:

.. literalinclude:: ../../../cub/examples/device/example_device_reduce.cu
   :language: c++
   :dedent:
   :start-after: example-begin temp-storage-query
   :end-before: example-end temp-storage-query

**Single-Phase API** (Environment-Based)

> Environment-based overloads are rolling out across CUB device-wide primitives. They remove the manual query/execute split by deriving temporary storage from an execution environment argument.

Reviewer 2: I am not sure "deriving temporary storage" is accurate enough. Maybe:

```suggestion
Environment-based overloads are rolling out across CUB device-wide primitives. They remove the manual query/execute split by obtaining the temporary storage from a memory resource queried from the execution environment argument.
```

   ../api/device

Determining Temporary Storage Requirements
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

**Two-Phase API** (Traditional)

Most CUB device-wide algorithms follow a two-phase usage pattern:

1. **Query Phase**: Call the algorithm with ``d_temp_storage = nullptr`` to determine required temporary storage size
2. **Execution Phase**: Allocate storage and call the algorithm again to perform the actual operation

**What arguments are needed during the query phase?**

* **Required**: Data types (via template parameters and iterator types) and problem size (``num_items``)
* **Can be nullptr/uninitialized**: All input/output pointers (``d_in``, ``d_out``, etc.)

> * **Note**: The algorithm does not access input data during the query phase

Reviewer 2: Are we actually providing this guarantee? Can you point at a place from which you derive this fact?

Hypothetical scenario: we could determine the temporary storage based on the alignment of another input pointer. AFAIK we don't do that, but currently, we could.

However, since we seem to be vage about what's required on all parameters that are not taking part in the query phase, maybe we should just define what's being suggested here. But that requires some broader approval and probably a review of all existing APIs.

@gevtushenko what do you think?

Author: Thanks @gevtushenko @bernhardmgruber for the detailed guidance. I’ve adopted that wording, query calls use the same template instantiation, only touch temp-storage/problem-size args (others may be indeterminate), and now note the same-current-device requirement. Happy to adjust further if needed.
